EMPEROR OF THE FADING SUNS
Commercial Patch Version 1.40
SegaSoft, Inc.
Holistic Designs, Inc.
Revision date:  May 27, 1999


1.40 Patch Notes:
-----------------

    * A file named "DAT_0527.EXE" has been included in this archive.
      This file contains all of the latest "official" .DAT files.
      These .DAT files are particularly important for PBEM games.
      Simply double-click the DAT_0527.EXE file (icon) and follow
      the prompts.  The file will be located in the EFS directory.
      (Note:  If you created custom DAT files, and wish to keep
      them, be sure to back them up prior to installing the official
      DAT files.)

    * Check the bottom of this file for additional information about
      what has been changed since the previous EFS patches.  There
      are tons of bug fixes and enhancements!

    * This patch will only work properly with the full commercial
      CD-ROM version of Emperor of the Fading Suns.  It will also
      install properly over v1.1 - v1.30 versions of EFS.

    * Several changes have been made to Emperor of the Fading Suns.
      We strongly recommend that you backup your current .SAV games
      before using the new version.  Also note that the newer .SAV
      games are incompatible with previous versions of Emperor of
      the Fading Suns (however, this newer version can load SAV
      games from previous versions.)

    * In PBEM sessions, with the new "security" option set to "on",
      all users must have identical ".DAT" files.  This ensures that
      no users will easily cheat by modifying the .DAT files on
      their system.  Also, be certain that all PBEM members upgrade
      to this patch version.  A ZIP file containing the latest ".DAT"
      files has been included in this archive.


Very VERY Special Thanks to Our Beta Testers!!:
-----------------------------------------------

Once again, a large list of volunteers tested and made possible the 1.4
patch.  There are perhaps too many to list here, but the following
individuals were especially helpful in finding and recording some incredibly
tough problems:
	
   Matt Caspermeyer
   Kent Matthew Peterson
   Richard Wein
   Ken Bourne
   Jeff Stone
   DeCarlos Moore
   Donald Backa
   Mike Ely
   Arthur "Sonny" Simpson II

And, thanks to everyone else involved.



Features/Fixes for version 1.40 (56 Code Changes)
-------------------------------------------------

v1.40	Fixed - Bug which prevented AI engineers from building any
   	structures.

v1.40	Fixed - Disband air units bug.  Previously a player could 
   	repeatedly disband air units and receive back resources 
   	so long as the player did not exit the unit info screen.

v1.40	Fixed - League trade problems with merchantile savy. 
   	Previously players with merchantile savy could endlessly 
   	make money by buying sufficient quantities of a resource 
   	to make the price rise and then immediately selling back.

v1.40	Fixed - Space Transport Charismatic Leadership cheat. 
   	Previously players could load nobles onto transports and 
   	remove them from the palace then land them and move them
   	back into the palace to gain a double bonus.

v1.40	Added - Added the variable "CD_Disabled" to the dat\efs.ini 
   	file. When set to 1, the CD player is disabled and the CD 
   	options screen will not display. Added in case there is some 
   	compatibility problem or if your music player is broken.

v1.40	Fixed - Occasionally by using the Unload All button on the
   	Unit Info dialog, a user could unload ground units into
   	space. (RE: Invulnerable Nobles bug posting.)

v1.40	Fixed - Attack Odds below 1-1 were incorrectly calculated.
   	Odds below 1-1 and above 1-2 were seriously incorrect.  Odds
   	are rounded down the nearest column correctly now.

v1.40	Modified - League prices no longer change as commodities are
   	bought. Prices are now modified at the end of the player
   	turn. They no longer change based on recent purchases either.
   	Prices are based on changes in the player's stock of goods.
   	If, for example, a player started buying commodities from
   	the league to create a stock pile, prices would drop. If the
   	player began to run short of a commodity, prices will rise.
   	In any event, price changes are now constrained to plus or
   	minus 20 percent.

v1.40	Fixed - PTS weapons will not fire correctly if there is a
   	Naval unit stacked FIRST with them. (Thanks to Matt
   	Caspermeyer for sending the definitive save with this bug!)

v1.40	Modified - Changed new econ engine to leave prices stable
   	when on-hand values remain zero from turn to turn.

v1.40	Fixed - Ships landing and taking damage would not die when
   	health was reduced to zero.

v1.40	Fixed - Loyalty was changed by the difference between current
   	pay and 100% instead of current pay and last turn's pay. This
   	meant you could raise pay to maximum for one turn to get
   	loyalty up to 100%, then reduce to the lowest green notch
   	(100%) the next turn and not lose any loyalty.

v1.40	Fixed - Bug prevented Cities from ever rebeling. Cities can now
   	rebel if tax rates are set too high.

v1.40	Increased - The agressiveness of the AI is increased to the 
   	point where it should make some losing attacks.

v1.40	Fixed - Charismatic Leadership not lost when last noble was 
   	killed in palace. (Thanks to Matt Caspermeyer for reporting 
   	this.)

v1.40	Fixed - Crash sometimes experienced the turn after building a 
   	lab.

v1.40	Fixed - Labs were constantly asking to be assigned research
	after nothing is assigned.

v1.40	Fixed - AI would occasionally attempt to transport things it 
   	shouldn't (canBCargo = 0 in UNIT.DAT). (Thanks to Kent Matthew 
   	Peterson for discovering this in a Hyperion game.)

v1.40	Changed - Units with a zero spot radius no longer spot 
   	anything.

v1.40	Changed - Units with a zero spot can not move into unrevealed 
   	hexes.

v1.40	Changed - UNIT.DAT -> Cargo Pods to spotting strength is zero. 
 
v1.40	Changed - nonCombat units (like cargo pods) can no longer 
   	capture or initiate any form of combat. (Unless in a stack 
   	with combatant units.)

v1.40	Changed - NAVAL units may now move freely through any city hex.

v1.40	Changed - Stats in UNIT.DAT of freighters and Bulk Haulers to 
   	make them less effective in combat.

v1.40	Fixed - When a player's last lab was destroyed, any tech's 
   	currently being researched would remain marked as "in 
   	progress." Therefore, these techs would never become 
   	available again to research, and if proscribed, they would 
   	continue to attract the Church's notice. (Thanks to Mike Ely
   	for sending in this one!)

   	NOTE: Fix will not repair old saves. 
   	(You may fix old games by destroying your last lab again.)

v1.40	Fixed - When plague killed a unit, if that unit's stack was 
   	selected, then "whole stack" was selected, then the unit was 
   	moved, the dead unit could be "brought" back to life. However, 
   	behavior of this zombie unit was undefined. (Thanks to Richard 
   	Wein for this one!)

   	NOTE: Fix will not repair "zombie" units in old saves. 
   	(You may fix old games by immediately entering fullscreen unit 
   	view and exiting.)

v1.40	Fixed - The "Dreaded phantom unit bug." In patch games and 
   	sometimes with Symbiot pieces, a high Camo unit may go 
   	unspotted after retreating from combat. If the "invisisble" 
   	unit is moved through, it is captured, and remains invisible 
   	until moved. However, in the invisible state it may cause the
   	game to crash.

   	NOTE: Fix will not repair "phantom" units in old saves. 
   	(You may fix old games by cycling to the phantom unit and 
   	moving one space using the keyboard.)

v1.40	Fixed - For patch users, the Lander is able to move on planet 
   	again.

   	NOTE: This does not affect the commercial standard version.

v1.40	Fixed - "Naval" coded Wheel and Crawler units would crash if 
   	they tried to move through a city hex.

   	NOTE: This does not affect the commercial standard version.

v1.40	Fixed - Sometimes a naval unit could not move into a city hex 
   	with mouse.

v1.40	Fixed - When last Noble is killed in a Palace the potential 
   	loyalty loss could be applied to the wrong player. (If both had
   	Charismatic Leadership.)

   	** The last four bugs found by Matt Caspermeyer, Thanks! **

v1.40	Changed - Naval units only allowed in coastal cities.

v1.40	Fixed - Resource markers would on rare occasions become "owned"
   	by AI players. AI players would then begin producing units from 
   	them. (Thanks to Ken Bourne for finally noticing the pattern 
   	behind this!)
 
v1.40	Fixed - Very rarely, a stack will get confused with units 
   	orbiting overhead. This may cause a unit to be unable to 
   	attack. (Thanks to Ken Bourne for sending in this save.)

v1.40	Fixed - The disappearing unit bug. Occasionally, when saving 
   	and re-loading a game, an entire section of units disappeared. 
   	(Thanks to Kent Peterson for sending the perfect saves on this 
   	problem!)
 
v1.40	Fixed (Most likely) - Non-Cargo ground units occasionally pop 
   	up into orbit.

v1.40	Fixed - Marauders would not participate in Space Combat when 
   	onboard a Carrier.

v1.40	Fixed - Focus would leave a ship after making an attack even 
   	when it had movement points remaining.

v1.40	Fixed - When AI made a Space to Space attacks, it would only 
   	use one movement point.

v1.40	Fixed - When an AI unit moved off screen the window would not 
   	re-center on it and the game would crash.

v1.40	Fixed - Lockup during AI turn. (Usually occurs late in 
   	the game.) (Thanks to jwstone@accessone.com for save.)

v1.40	Fixed - AI Lockup which occurs when AI tries to look at space
   	units on the last planet. (Thanks to Jeff Stone.)

v1.40	Fixed - A player could avoid providing the upgrade unit for
   	production by switching production from some other unit.
   	(Thanks to Matt Caspermeyer for providing the save game.)

v1.40	Fixed - Planetary Loyalty NOT adjusted when Nobles deposited
   	in Palace by canceling an upgrade unit.

v1.40	Fixed - Disbanding captured upgrade units often fails to create
   	the base unit. (Thanks to Matt Caspermeyer for providing the 
   	save game.)

v1.40	Changed/Fixed - Upgrade units ALWAYS require a level zero 
   	unit to build. Higher level units will not be taken if 
   	available. 

v1.40	Fixed - A loaded save game sometimes crashed during messsage
   	review when viewing combat report and a "rally" message was
   	displayed. (Thanks to Matt Caspermeyer for the save.)

v1.40	Fixed - AI city production might be stalled in some cases 
   	because AI tried to build cities over existing city locations.
   	(Thanks to Donald Backa for this one.)

v1.40	Fixed - Phantom units can be created by building an Oil Well 
   	at see from a trasnport carrying at least one other unit.
   	(Thanks to Kent Matthew Peterson for discovering this.)

v1.40	Fixed - AI freeze caused by AI expecting a psychic troop on a
   	Freighter to fight in combat. (They do not unless on a 
   	carrier.) (Thanks to DeCarlos Moore for sending in this one.)

v1.40	Change - Pyschic troops can participate in ship combat if on 
   	board a Space Carrier.

v1.40	Fixed - The abrubt loss of labs in a late game position can 
   	overflow the stack reporting the various technologies lost.
   	(Thanks to Donnie Backa and Arthur "Sonny" Simpson II for 
   	finding this one.)

v1.40	Fixed - Date did not advance in all AI games.

v1.40	Added - Under [Options] in the dat\efs.ini file, you may now 
   	enter the following variable:
 
   	SaveTurnsInLog=5

   	This sets the number of log save files the game keeps while 
   	playing. The game creates log saves at the beginning of each 
   	turn (right before the Li Halan,) and deletes the oldest one 
   	in excess of the value. (5 in this example.)

v1.40	Added - Under [Computer] in the dat\efs.ini file, you may now 
   	enter the following variable:

   	HideAI=1

   	Setting the value to 1 turns off all AI display of units 
   	moving. This provides a slight speed increase for most games.

v1.40	Change - Space ships may now land on unoccupied cities and 
   	non-combatant units, (or both.) This qualifies as an act of war
   	for the treaty status. The game warns players about to land on
   	other factions they have a peace treaty with or an alliance.


Features/Fixes for version 1.30
--------------------------------

v1.30   "5060" bug destroyed along with a few more crash issues.

v1.30	PBEM "Secure Mode" now implemented!!!

   	The "Game Options" screen adds "Secure On/Off" when PBEM is on.

	   	Secure Options (when on):
   		-------------------------
      		1. Unique PBEM passwords for each player!
      		2. CRC on all DAT files!
      		3. Notifies all players if CRC difference exists.
      		4. Can't save game until "END TURN" is selected!
      		5. Older versions of EFS will NOT load these games!
	   	(If it did, it would not check player passwords...)

v1.30	Ministry Engineers now create Ministry Cities.  Major Game play issue!

v1.30	Ministry cities no longer produce House resources!

v1.30   Implemented A.I. optimization in Build Cities routine.  Estimated
        speed increase is about 40% faster!

v1.30   Added letters to the cargo pod icon so you can tell what the cargo
        contains without going to the unit info screen.

v1.30	Ministry Cities drawn with white border instead of normal black.

v1.30	Ministry unit moves left display is black on white instead of
   	white on black.

v1.30	Added code to clean up any existing SAV games with corrupted data.
   	Old games with lockup problems may now work fine.

v1.30   Fixed bug, in which you can build a spy without an officer if you
        don't have the required resources and buy them from the League.

v1.30	When a PBEM player is eliminated, the PBEM game will save properly.

v1.30   Ministry cities would sometimes dump House resources out if "Cancel"
        was selected while building units.  This bug has been fixed.

v1.30	Can not move Ministry units into House cities (and vice versa.)

v1.30	A.I. speed increase (a few percent) in Spotting code.

v1.30   A.I. avoids mixed stack units (in case a mixed stack bug should
        arise.)

v1.30	A.I. can no longer build on Byzanthium II.

v1.30   Fixed bug concerning cargo ships retreating from a city.  (Cargo
        would be partially left behind and prevent capture of city.)

v1.30   Subs became cargo when moved onto a Naval Transport.  UNIT.DAT was
        wrong.  *** Be sure to use new UNIT.DAT file located in the official
	DAT files archive included with this patch ***

v1.30	Fixed problem where AI would sometimes declare war on themselves.

v1.30	Fixed problem where sometimes the health of a unit went negative.

v1.30   Labs researching nothing no longer increase the number of labs
        counter.

v1.30   Fixed problem where return from the unit info screen would not update
        the resource numbers at the bottom of the planet screen.

v1.30	You can now access the technology screen for a particular lab through
   	the City Info screen.

v1.30	Fixed bug where Insanity trait would result in no singularities being
   	produced.

v1.30   Having a noble in a stack during combat is more effective.

v1.30   Fixed bug where St. Almathea's Lancet had no effect.

v1.30   Having the Hand of St. Ignatius relic in a stack during combat has
        more of an effect.

v1.30   Having the Rod of Holy Smiting relic in a stack during combat has
        more of an effect.

v1.30   Added an attack bonus when attacking the Vau if you have the
        technology Vau Psychology.

v1.30	Added an attack bonus when attacking the Symbiots if you have the
   	technology Symbiot Psychology.

v1.30   Fixed bug where sometimes the lab screen wouldn't come up for a lab
        during production.

v1.30   Fixed bug where sometimes you got the message "Cannot merge loaned
        units" when trying to move house units into their own city.

v1.30	Fixed several "mixed stack" bugs with Ministries.

v1.30	You can no longer build Clergy.

v1.30	You can no longer find Clergy or Inquisitors in ruins or alien ruins.

v1.30	Fixed bug where striking a technology didn't immediately reset the
	prerequisites for all the other technologies.

v1.30	Fixed lockup when mouse cursor was dragged to bottom of the screen on
   	a few specific video cards.


v1.21 Fixes:
------------

v1.21   CRASH BE GONE:
        Based on user .SAV game files in the past, we've nailed about
        95% of the nasty A.I. crash bugs.  However, the "5060 bug" still
        exists.

v1.21   CITY INFO SCREEN MAP:
        The city info screen shows the planet map correctly.

v1.21   CITY INFO SCREEN MISC.:
        The city info screen no longer shows an outline of a button.

v1.21   RESOURCE ISSUES:
        Fixed bug where resources were not being subtracted during
        production.

v1.21   BOMBARD FOREVER BUG FIXED:
        Fixed bug where you could repeatedly bombard even when the bombard
        again button had disappeared.

v1.21   OPTIONS SCREEN DISPLAY:
        The options screen now shows the correct version number.  (Previous
        v1.2 version showed v1.3.  When the real version "1.3" is posted,
        we'll be sure to include a little bit more information on this
        screen to avoid confusion).

v1.21   SYMBIOT/VAU REBELS?:
        Fixed bug when playing with a random galaxy where Symbiot and Vau
        units were owned by Rebels (this may fix the "Rebels are at war
        with Rebels" bug - not confirmed).

v1.21   LIMITED ENGAGEMENT:
        Made it so the "Limited Engagement!" report message will not pop-up
        during the A.I. turns.

v1.21   MISCELLANEOUS A.I.
        Fixed some generic AI bugs to avoid crash.


v1.2 Game Enhancements:
-----------------------

v1.2    TURN SPEED IN THE LATER YEARS:
        Previously, as the NPC built multiple units, the CPU calculation
        time could become severe.  The A.I. turns now complete about 40%
        faster then previous.  This number is typical, but may vary from
        machine to machine.

v1.2    UNIT SUMMARY SCREEN:
        Added a city summary screen.  The new screen shows what units are
        being produced at which cities on all planets and how long they
        have left to build.  Information can be also be sorted (for the
        serious players!)

v1.2    THE INQUISITION:
        The Church would sometimes make an empty promise to destroy
        your labs.  It is now MUCH more likely that if you research
        a forbidden technology, or if the Church proscribes a
        technology you already possess, they will attack your lab.

v1.2    CHURCH DIPLOMACY:
        Previously, the Church was not accepting contracts often.  The
        leniency of the church has been enhanced.

v1.2    VIEWING PLANET MAPS:
        Planet maps are now full screen!

v1.2    SAVING A PLANET MAP TO A FILE:
        On the planet map screen, there is a new option to SAVE a world
        map to a .PCX file.  Files will be saved in the EFS sub-directory.

v1.2    BOMBARDING MULTIPLE TIMES:
        A "Bombard Again" option has been added to the space combat screen!

v1.2    PLANET HEX MEMORY:
        When bombarding and landing, the game remembers the last hex position
        clicked on.  This makes the game much easier to navigate when going
        between the starmap and the planet map.

v1.2    UNIT BUILDING MEMORY:
        After building a unit, when the user is prompted to build another
        unit, the previously selected unit is now the default unit in the
        scroll list.

v1.2    BUILDING PRODUCTION:
        After a structure completes building a unit, the structure which
        built the unit is displayed on the planet map.  The hex will have
        a "darkened" appearance (in case similar structures are nearby).

v1.2    UNIT MANAGEMENT:
        When you right click on an enemy unit, you can now click on the
        green arrow button to go to the next unit.

v1.2    LAB RESEARCH FEE:
        A line of text has been added to lab screen informing players
        that it costs 500 Firebirds per lab/turn to research technology.

v1.2    LAB RESEARCH WARNING:
        Added a warning message if the user doesn't have enough Firebirds
        to research at a particular lab.

v1.2    PROSCRIBING TECHNOLOGIES:
        The Church wasn't proscribing technologies.  There is now a select
        group of morally "questionable" technologies that the church may
        randomly deem odious to humanity.

v1.2    FORBIDDEN TECHNOLOGIES:
        Technologies which are proscribed (Red) were previously listed
        when asking Church to proscribe a technology.  Now, only
        technologies which can be proscribed are listed.

v1.2    BYZANTIUM II SCREEN:
        If you promised your votes for a Ministry, the ministry selections
        would show your "promised" commitment, and not necessarily the
        actual holder of the position (or vacant).

v1.2    RAISING TAXES:
        When raising taxes, the Advisor now warns you that your cities
        may rebel.

v1.2    UNLOADING CARGO:
        Added an "Unload All" button to unit info screen.


v1.2 Fixes:
-----------

v1.2    GUNSHIPS:
        A rather impressive unit, the Gunship unit is now researchable
        and functional.  The technology requirement for Gunships has been
        changed to Energy Physics.

v1.2    LEAGUE DIPLOMACY:
        If you were at war with the League, the diplomacy screen did not
        have the thumbs down showing.  This problem has been fixed.

v1.2    A.I. VOTING:
        NPC houses without nobles on Byzantium II were voting.  This
        problem has been fixed.

v1.2    RUINS AND UNITS:
        Ruins would incorrectly give players scientists and peasants
        (which were removed from game-play ages ago).  These unusable
        units will no longer appear.

v1.2    RUINS AND COMBAT:
        Enemy units were incorrectly retreating into Ruins.  This
        was a cause of "mixed" stacks, leaving an affected stack
        unusable.  This problem has been fixed.

v1.2    HIDDEN MUSIC TRACK?:
        The 10th track (and one of the best tracks) was not playing
        within the game.  This problem has been fixed.

v1.2    SPY ASSAULT:
        If you had a stack with a Spy in it on Byzantium II, you could
        previously attack with the entire stack.  This problem has been
        fixed.

v1.2    UNIVERSAL WAREHOUSE:
        Fixed bug with universal warehouse turned off where it reported
        the wrong number of a resource.

v1.2    LEAGUE CARGO:
        Late in the game the League wasn't restocking.  This problem
        has been fixed.

v1.2    MINISTRY ASSIGNMENTS:
        You could change ministry assignments more than once during your
        first turn as Regent.  This problem has been fixed.

v1.2    PLANETARY SECT:
        Changing planet sect now makes new units start with the new sect.

v1.2    BYZANTIUM MESSAGE:
        Landing on Byzantium II before someone declared themselves Regent
        resulted in a message saying combat is restricted.  This problem
        his been fixed.

v1.2    SPACE CARGO:
        While in space, if you attempted to drag cargo outside of the 4x5
        grid of boxes, a message stating that you can't unload in space
        would appear and then draw a box next to the House banner.
        This problem has been fixed.

v1.2    EXCOMMUNICATION:
        Church wasn't excommunicating on contract.

v1.2    EXCOMMUNICATION (2):
        Excommunication from the Church will now properly affect
        cities loyalty.

v1.2    HOLY WRIT:
        Previously, you could sign the Holy Writ more than once.
        This problem has been fixed.

v1.2    SHADED CITY "BUILD":
        Fixed a bug where you could build units in an unidentified city.
        This problem has been fixed.

v1.2    SPELLING:
        Fixed miscellaneous spelling errors.

v1.2    256 COLOR DIALOGUE
        Previously, in some instances, if your game was not running in
        256 colors, the warning dialogue box would overwrite the cursor.
        Your cursor will now properly move "over" the box.

v1.2    PRODUCTION BUGS:
        Fixed miscellaneous bugs with NPC production.

v1.1 Bug Fixes:
---------------

v1.1    HOURGLASS CURSOR:
        On some machines, if the intro-video sequence was skipped using
        the ESC key, Windows would incorrectly place an hourglass cursor
        over the EFS cursor.  Note that this did not happen with an
        animated "wait" cursor. This problem has been fixed.  However
        if you are still experiencing problems with an hourglass cursor,
        try to ALT-Tab out of the game, then ALT-Tab back in.  That
        should do the trick.

v1.1    MINISTRY MIXED UNIT STACKS:
        If a player left units in a Ministry owned city. If the Ministry
        changed hands at the next election and the new player built units
        in the hex, a mixed unit stack would be created. No units were
        able to move into or out of this stack. This problem has been fixed.

v1.1    REBEL SHIPS IN SPACE:
        When a player was defeated, any starships still in orbit over any
        world would become Rebel ships. Clicking on these ships would cause
        lock-ups in some cases. This problem has been fixed.

v1.1    ELECTIONS:
        If the user selected "wait" during an election and then moved
        remaining noble(s) off of Byzantium Secundus, the game would get
        stuck in a loop.  This problem has been fixed.

v1.1    MAXIMUM TAXES:
        If the user raised the tax rate to the maximum and lost all
        technologies on the following turn (because the labs would lose all
        loyalty), cities could not be built, and technologies could not be
        researched for the duration of the game -- even if the taxes were
        lowered. This problem has been fixed.

v1.1    SENTRIED NAVAL UNITS:
        If a player loaded one unit onto a transport, sentried the
        transport, loaded another unit onto the transport, unsentried the
        transport, and unloaded the transport, then the game would freeze.
        This problem has been fixed.
